# C4a associated with treatment response to APDs
## Schizophrenia risk loci from xMHC region were associated with antipsychotic response in chronic schizophrenic patients with persistent positive symptom
### Jiang Li1,2, Akane Yoshikawa1,3, Ney Alliey-Rodriguez1, and Herbert Y. Meltzer1

We examined whether common variants from the extended major histocompatibility complex (xMHC) region contribute to response to antipsychotic drugs (APDs) in patients with schizophrenia with persistent psychosis. Subjects participated in a prospective longitudinal study of the effect of APDs on psychopathology were temporally split into discovery(n=88) and replication (n=42) cohorts. The primary endpoint was a change in Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale at 6-week or 6-month after treatment. rs204991 (p=3.72×106), the strongest signal associated with response at 6-week was located near C4A/C4B after a linear regression adjusted for covariates. xMHC SNP imputation disclosed much stronger signals (rs9268469, p=1.57×107) and other weaker signals (p<1×105) spanning the entire xMHC region. All the variants were previously identified schizophrenia risk loci. Conditional fine-mapping revealed three subgroups of SNPs which were the eQTLs (p<1×107) for C4A, HLA-C, and BTN3A2 in disease-relevant tissue. Epistasis between HLA-C and C4A was observed (p=0.019). Minor allele (G) carriers of rs204991, eQTL for C4A, having decreased risk for schizophrenia and lower imputed expression of C4A, had a better response to APDs. Some imputed HLA alleles associated with a decreased risk for schizophrenia had a positive association with improvement in psychosis. An independent cohort validated the association of change in psychosis with C4A. We provide evidence that genetic risk factors for schizophrenia from the xMHC region are associated with response to APDs and those variants significantly alter the imputed expression of C4A, HLA-C, and BTN3A2. The minor alleles predicting higher C4A level are associated with diminished improvement in psychosis after APD treatment.

## Inclusion and exclusion criteria
All participants were temporally split into discovery (n=88) and replication (n=42) cohorts. Demographics and clinical information for the discovery and replication cohorts were provided in Table 1. The subjects selected for GWAS had participated in a prospective clinical trial of the effect of atypical APDs. Diagnosis and classification as treatment-resistant schizophrenia (TRS) or non-treatment resistant schizophrenia (NTRS) were based on severity of positive symptoms and poor functional outcome after two or more trials of APDs of adequate duration27. Patients whose psychotic symptom responded to atypical APDs other than clozapine were classified as NTRS. Determination of TRS or NTRS was based upon review of medical records for inpatient and out-patient treatment and assessment of response of positive symptoms to two or more trials with ADPs, including the current trial28. 
The discovery GWAS included 88 self-described Caucasian patients diagnosed with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder by DSM-IV criteria. They were recruited between 1999 and 2010 at clinical facilities associated with Departments of Psychiatry at Case Western Reserve University and Vanderbilt University. Most of these patients were initially hospitalized for an acute exacerbation of symptoms and failure to respond adequately to conventional or atypical antipsychotic drugs. The subjects selected for GWAS had participated in a clinical trial (NCT00539071, NCT00179062) or prospective longitudinal studies of the effect of clozapine (n=60), olanzapine(n=15), or risperidone (13). 62.5% patients in the discovery cohort were classified as TRS29. An additional 42 subjects with were studied at Vanderbilt University and Northwestern University 30. The subjects selected for GWAS had participated in a clinical trial (NCT01569659, NCT00179062) or prospective longitudinal study of the effect of lurasidone(n=14), risperidone(n=19), olanzapine(n=6), clozapine(n=1) or ziprasidone(n=2). 
All ratings were conducted by trained neuropsychiatric technicians who were blind to the hypothesis of this study. The BPRS positive symptom subscale, BPSY, includes assessment of suspiciousness, hallucinatory behavior, and unusual thought content. The BPRS negative subscale, WR, is comprised of three items: emotional withdrawal, motor retardation and blunted affect. Quantitative treatment response was evaluated at 6-week and 6-month, using the change in ∆BPSY or ∆WR. Only patients with moderate to severe psychosis (baseline BPSY ≥ 6) were included in the analysis. Different cutoff values for BPSY had been implemented to avoid selection bias, and BPSY ≥ 6 gave the strongest signal compared to BPSY ≥2, ≥4, ≥8, and ≥10, with 88 out of previously reported 174 patients29 included in the discovery cohort. Therefore, the same baseline cutoff values were applied to the replication cohort. 42 out of 71 patients were included.

### Data analysis pipeline
